.TH NIMDOW 1
.SH NAME
nimdow \- an X dynamic tiling window manager
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nimdow
.RB [ -v ]
.br
.B nimdow
[\fB\-\-go-to-tag\fR \fITAG\fR]
.br
.B nimdow
.RB [ --toggle-fullscreen ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nimdow
is a dynamic tiling window manager for the X display server protocol.
Windows are automatically laid out in a tiled fashion,
to prevent overlap.
Window position and layout can be controlled with keybindings configured in Nimdow's configuration file,
or via IPC.
.
.PP
.B nimdow
also acts as a cli client,
which talks to a running nimdow process via a UNIX socket.
All window manager controls are available via the IPC and cli client.
The UNIX socket is created at
.B $XDG_RUNTIME_DIR/nimdow/ipc-socket.%p
where %p is the PID of nimdow.
.
.PP
Floating windows are supported,
and can be moved/resized with the mouse while holding a modifier key.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.SS "Generic Commands"
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version \fR
Prints the version information.
.TP
.BI \-c " FILE, " \-\-config=\fIFILE\fR
Starts nimdow with the given config file.
.
.SS "IPC Commands"
.
.TP
.BR --reload-config
Reloads all settings from your config file.
.
.TP
.BR --increase-master-count
Increases the number of master windows in the layout.
.
.TP
.BR --decrease-master-count
Decreases the number of master windows in the layout.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-to-previous-monitor
Moves the selected window to the previous monitor.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-to-next-monitor
Moves the selected window to the next monitor.
.TP
.BR --focus-previous-monitor
Focuses the previous monitor (wraps around to the last monitor).
.
.TP
.BR --focus-next-monitor
Focuses the next monitor (wraps around to the first monitor).
.
.TP
\fB--go-to-tag\fR \fITAG\fR
Views the selected tag.
.
.TP
.BR --go-to-left-tag
Goes to the tag on the left.
.
.TP
.BR --go-to-right-tag
Goes to the tag on the right.
.
.TP
.BR --go-to-previous-tag
Views the previously viewed tag.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-to-previous-tag
Moves the selected window to the previously viewed tag.
.
.TP
\fB--toggle-tag-view\fR \fITAG\fR
Toggles the visibility of a tag.
.
.TP
\fB--toggle-window-tag\fR \fITAG\fR
Toggles the assignment of a window to a tag.
.
.TP
.BR --focus-previous
Focuses the previous window.
.
.TP
.BR --focus-next
Focuses the next window.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-previous
Moves the window to the previous position in the window stack.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-next
Moves the window to the next position in the window stack.
.
.TP
\fB--move-window-to-tag\fR \fITAG\fR
Moves the selected window to the tag associated with the given number.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-to-left-tag
Moves the window to the tag on the left.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-to-right-tag
Moves the window to the tag on the right.
.
.TP
.BR --toggle-fullscreen
Toggles the fullscreen state of the selected window.
.
.TP
.BR --destroy-selected-window
Destroys the selected window.
.
.TP
.BR --toggle-floating
Toggles the floating state of the selected window.
.
.TP
.BR --jump-to-urgent-window
Finds and selects the first urgent window.
.
.TP
.BR --increase-master-width
Increases the width of the master window.
.
.TP
.BR --decrease-master-width
Decreases the width of the master window.
.
.TP
.BR --move-window-to-scratchpad
Moves the selected window to the scratchpad.
.
.TP
.BR --pop-scratchpad
Brings back the window most recently added to the scratchpad.
